update: String page (#5485)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/strings.md

[//]: # (title: Strings)
[//]: # (description: Learn how to work with strings in Kotlin, including string literals, string templates, multiline strings, and common text operations.)

The [`String`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-string/) type represents a sequence of
[characters](characters.md). 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Can you combine the first two sentences into a paragraph? Currently it looks a little like it should be a list with three separate sentences at the beginning 🤔

> Use `String` for text values, such as words, sentences, messages, or structured text. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `String` type for text values, such as words, sentences, messages, or structured text. 
```

> The `String` type is immutable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `String` type is immutable. After an object with `String` type is created, its contents stay the same for the rest of its lifetime. Any operation that appears to modify the string actually creates a new string.
```
Could we expand on this a little to explain what impact it has? WDYT?

## Declare strings

To declare a `String` literal, enclose the value in double quotes (`""`). 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Again, I think you can combine these two into a paragraph.

You can specify the `String` type explicitly or let Kotlin infer it from the value:

```kotlin
val name: String = "Kotlin"
val message = "Hello, world!" // Kotlin infers String
```

To declare a nullable value, use `String?`:

> ```kotlin

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```kotlin
```
Generally, we like to add a newline before code samples. Just to be on the safe side with writerside and it makes it a little easier to read :) Can you check the rest of the samples in the doc?

val maybeAbsent: String? = null
```

### Escape sequences

Double-quoted string literals support [escape sequences](characters.md#escape-sequences) such as `\n` or `\t`: 

```kotlin
val message = "Hello,\nworld!"
val quote = "Kotlin says, \"Hi\"."
```

> Use escape sequences for special characters that are difficult to write directly in source code or have a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use escape sequences for special characters that are difficult to write directly in source code or that have a
```

special meaning.

### Multiline strings

> To store text that consists of multiple lines or contains quotes that you do not want to escape,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To store text that consists of multiple lines or contains quotes that you don't want to escape,
```

use a multiline `String` enclosed in triple quotes (`""" """`):

```kotlin
val text = """
Hello,
Kotlin
"""

val quote = """Kotlin says, "Hi"."""
```

> > Multiline strings do not support escape sequences. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Multiline strings don't support escape sequences. 
```
It's OK to use contractions :)

> Characters such as `\n` and `\t` are treated as regular text. 
>
{style="note"}

> Multiline strings preserve **line breaks** and **indentations** as written in the source code. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure the emphasis is needed in this sentence. Would you mind removing it?

> You can use this when you want the runtime value to match the text layout in your file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This behavior is useful when you want the runtime value to match the text layout in your file.
```
I think this version makes "this" more explicit. WDYT? And how about combining it in a paragraph with the previous sentence?

In the following example, the spaces before each line are part

> of the resulting `String`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the resulting string:
```
Since we're not talking about the `String` type here.

```kotlin
val text = """
    Hello,
    Kotlin
"""
```

To remove common leading indentation, use 

> [`trimIndent()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/trim-indent.html). It detects the common

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [`trimIndent()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/trim-indent.html) function. It detects the common
```

minimal indent of non-empty lines and removes it: 

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart
    val text = """
        Hello,
        Kotlin
    """.trimIndent()
    
    println(text)
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

> To control indentation more explicitly, use 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To control indentation removal more explicitly, use 
```

> [`trimMargin()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/trim-margin.html). This function 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [`trimMargin()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/trim-margin.html) function. This function 
```

removes everything before and including the margin prefix on each line:

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart
    val text = """
        |Hello,
        |Kotlin
    """.trimMargin()
    
    println(text)
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

> By default, `trimMargin()` uses a pipe symbol (`|`) as the margin prefix, but you can pass another character 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the `trimMargin()` function uses a pipe symbol (`|`) as the margin prefix, but you can pass another character 
```

as a parameter. For example: `trimMargin(">")`.

> > When you process a `String` with functions like `trimIndent()` or `trimMargin()`, the resulting `String`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When you process a string with functions like `trimIndent()` or `trimMargin()`, the resulting string
```

> uses only newline (`\n`) separators, regardless of the platform.
> 
{style="note"}

## String templates

String templates let you embed variables and expressions directly inside a `String` literal. 
This process is called _interpolation_. 

> You can use string templates in both regular and multiline strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use string templates in both regular and multiline strings:
```

* To insert a variable, use the `$` symbol:

  ```kotlin
  fun main() {
  //sampleStart
      val name = "Kotlin"
      println("Hello, $name") 
      // Hello, Kotlin
  //sampleEnd
  }
  ```
  {kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

* To insert an expression, or to place a variable directly next to other text, use `${}`:

  ```kotlin
  fun main() {
  //sampleStart
      val text = "abc"
      println("The length of $text is ${text.length}")

>       // // The length of abc is 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // The length of abc is 3
```

      val language = "Kotlin"
      println("${language}Lang")
      // KotlinLang
  // sampleEnd
  }
  ```
  {kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

> You can also combine strings with the `+` operator. However, string templates are usually easier 
> to read and more idiomatic.
>
{style="tip"}

Template expressions can also contain double-quoted strings without escaping:

```kotlin
// Double-quoted string
val test = "${"test".uppercase()}"
// Multiline string
val result = """
Result: ${"OK".lowercase()}
"""
```

### Nullable values in string templates

If an interpolated expression or variable evaluates to `null`, the Kotlin compiler 

> inserts the text `null` into the resulting `String`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
inserts the text `null` into the resulting string:
```

[//]: # (title: Strings)
[//]: # (description: Learn how to work with strings in Kotlin, including string literals, string templates, multiline strings, and common text operations.)

<show-structure depth="1"/>

> The [`String`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin/-string/) type represents a sequence of

Reviewer 2: Should it be `https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-string/` instead?

Author: true, thank you! fixed

[characters](characters.md). 

Use `String` for text values, such as words, sentences, messages, or structured text. 

The `String` type is immutable. This means that once you create a `String`, you cannot change its contents.

## Declare strings

> To declare a `String`, enclose the value in double quotes (`""`). 

Reviewer 3: Strictly speaking, this is a string literal.

To declare a string one writes `val s: String = ...` and the quoted sequence of characters can be used as a literal value for that string.

You can specify the `String` type explicitly or let Kotlin infer it from the value:

```kotlin
val name: String = "Kotlin"
val message = "Hello, world!" // Kotlin infers String
```

### Nullable values

> To declare a nullable value, use `String?`:

Reviewer 2: Any nullable value will be declared the same way. Is there a reason to showcase it for strings in particular?

Author: I believe we should mention nullable values on this page, since it's an overview one. However, I agree that it should be a separate section. What do you think about adding this example to the code block above (lines 20-21) with the corresponding comment?

```kotlin
val maybeAbsent: String? = null
```

### Escape sequences

> Double-quoted strings support [escape sequences](characters.md#escape-sequences) such as `\n` or `\t`: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Double-quoted string literals support [escape sequences](characters.md#escape-sequences) such as `\n` or `\t`: 
```

I don't have any strong opinion here, but for me "double-quoted" is about literals, not string objects.

Author: fair enough, fixed

use a multiline `String` enclosed in triple quotes (`""" """`):

```kotlin
val text = """
Hello,
Kotlin
"""

val quote = """Kotlin says, "Hi"."""
```

> Multiline strings do not support escape sequences. 
> Characters such as `\n` and `\t` are treated as regular text. 
>
{style="note"}

### Line breaks and indentation

Multiline strings preserve **line breaks** and **indentations** as written in the source code. 

You can use this when you want the runtime value to match the text layout in your file.

In the following example, the spaces before each line are part
of the resulting `String`:

```kotlin
val text = """
    Hello,
    Kotlin
"""
```

To remove common leading indentation, use 
[`trimIndent()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/trim-indent.html). It detects the common
minimal indent of non-empty lines and removes it: 

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart
    val text = """
        Hello,
        Kotlin
    """.trimIndent()
    
    println(text)
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

To control indentation more explicitly, use 

> [`trimMargin()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin.text/trim-margin.html). This function 

Reviewer 2: `https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/trim-margin.html`?

> uses only newline (`\n`) separators, regardless of the platform.
> 
{style="note"}

## String templates

String templates let you insert variables and expressions directly into a `String`. This process is called 
_interpolation_. 

You can use string templates in both regular and multiline strings.

* To insert a variable, use the `$` symbol:

  ```kotlin
  fun main() {
  //sampleStart
      val name = "Kotlin"
      println("Hello, $name") 
      // Hello, Kotlin
  //sampleEnd
  }
  ```
  {kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

* To insert an expression, or to place a variable directly next to other text, use `${}`:

  ```kotlin
  fun main() {
  //sampleStart
      val text = "abc"
      println("The length of $text is ${text.length}")
      // // The length of abc is 3
      val language = "Kotlin"
      println("${language}Lang")
      // KotlinLang
  // sampleEnd
  }
  ```
  {kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

> You can also combine strings with the `+` operator. However, string templates are usually easier 
> to read and more idiomatic.
>
{style="tip"}

> In multiline strings, template expressions can contain double-quoted strings without escaping:

Reviewer 2: It works for double-quoted string literals too:
```kotlin
 println("${"test".uppercase()}")
```
https://pl.kotl.in/6h9mIXaYY

Author: thanks! added to the example

By default, `trimMargin()` uses a pipe symbol (`|`) as the margin prefix, but you can pass another character 
as a parameter. For example: `trimMargin(">")`.

> When you process a `String` with functions like `trimIndent()` or `trimMargin()`, the resulting `String`
> uses only newline (`\n`) separators, regardless of the platform.
> 
{style="note"}

## String templates

String templates let you insert variables and expressions directly into a `String`. This process is called 
_interpolation_. 

You can use string templates in both regular and multiline strings.

* To insert a variable, use the `$` symbol:

  ```kotlin
  fun main() {
  //sampleStart
      val name = "Kotlin"
      println("Hello, $name") 
      // Hello, Kotlin
  //sampleEnd
  }
  ```
  {kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

* To insert an expression, or to place a variable directly next to other text, use `${}`:

  ```kotlin
  fun main() {
  //sampleStart
      val text = "abc"
      println("The length of $text is ${text.length}")
      // // The length of abc is 3
      val language = "Kotlin"
      println("${language}Lang")
      // KotlinLang

>   // sampleEnd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  //sampleEnd
```

    // otli
    println(text.subSequence(1, 5))
    // otli
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

Since the `String` type is immutable, these functions don't modify the original string.

### Compare strings

You can check whether two strings have the same content with the `==` operator:

```kotlin
fun main(){
//sampleStart
    println("kotlin" == "kotlin")
    // true
  
    println("kotlin" == "Kotlin")
    // false
//sampleEnd    
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

You can also compare strings lexicographically (character by character) with the [`compareTo()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-string/compare-to.html)
function. It scans both strings until it finds the first differing pair of characters and returns:

* `0` when the strings are equal.
* A value less than `0` when the receiver is smaller than the argument.
* A value greater than `0` when the receiver is greater than the argument.

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart    
    println("abc".compareTo("abd") < 0)
    // true
    
    println("abc".compareTo("ABC") > 0)
    // true
    
    // Pass true to ignore case differences

>     println("abc".compareTo("ABC", true) == 0)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    println("abc".compareTo("ABC", ignoreCase = true) == 0)
```
More explicit what the second argument means

Often you may use strings to represent values of other types, such as numbers, Boolean values, or identifiers from the input.
Kotlin provides functions for converting values to strings and for parsing strings into other types.

To return a string representation of a value, use the [`toString()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-string/to-string.html) function:

```kotlin
val number = 10
val text = number.toString()
```

In string templates and string concatenation, Kotlin converts values to strings automatically.

To convert a string to another type, use the corresponding parsing functions:

* For integer values: [`toByte()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-byte.html), [`toShort()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-short.html), [`toInt()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-int.html), [`toLong()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-long.html)
* For floating-point values: [`toDouble()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-double.html), [`toFloat()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-float.html)

> * For booleans: [`toBoolean()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-boolean.html)

Reviewer 3: Maybe also https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-boolean-strict.html because `toBoolean` has its pitfalls

These functions return a value of the requested type if the string has a valid format.
If the input may be invalid, use the `OrNull` variants. These functions return `null` 
instead of throwing an exception making them safe for user input or data that you don't
fully control:

```kotlin
val toInt = "10".toInt()

> val toBoolean = "true".toBoolean()

Reviewer 3: `toBooleanStrict` has `OrNull` variant, so we can use `toBooleanStrict` and `toBooleanStrictOrNull` in this example

[characters](characters.md). You can use it for text values, such as words, sentences, messages, or structured text.

The `String` type is immutable. After you create a `String` object,
its contents stay the same for the rest of its lifetime. Any operation that appears
to modify the string actually creates a new string.

## Declare strings

To declare a `String` literal, enclose the value in double quotes (`""`). You can specify the `String` type
explicitly or let Kotlin infer it from the value:

```kotlin
val name: String = "Kotlin"
val message = "Hello, world!" // Kotlin infers String
```

Double-quoted string literals support [escape sequences](characters.md#escape-sequences) such as `\n` or `\t`:

```kotlin
val message = "Hello,\nworld!"
val quote = "Kotlin says, \"Hi\"."
```

### Multiline strings

To store text that consists of multiple lines or contains quotes that you don't want to escape,
use a multiline string enclosed in triple quotes (`""" """`):

```kotlin
val text = """
Hello,
Kotlin
"""

val quote = """Kotlin says, "Hi"."""
```

> Multiline strings don't support escape sequences.

> > Kotlin treats such characters as a regular text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Kotlin treats these characters as regular text.
```
"These" sounds more natural and regular text doesn't need an article since it's plural.

      
    val language = "Kotlin"
    println("${language}Lang")
    // KotlinLang
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

> You can also combine strings with the `+` operator. However, string templates are usually easier
> to read and more idiomatic.
>
{style="tip"}

Template expressions can also contain double-quoted strings without escaping:

```kotlin
// Double-quoted string
val test = "${"test".uppercase()}"

// Multiline string
val result = """
Result: ${"OK".lowercase()}
"""
```

### Nullable values in string templates

If an interpolated expression or variable evaluates to `null`, the Kotlin compiler
inserts the text `null` into the resulting string. To replace `null` with another value,
use the [Elvis operator](null-safety.md#elvis-operator) (`?:`):

```kotlin 
fun main(){
//sampleStart
    val text: String? = null
  
    println("Hello, $text")
    // Hello, null

    println("Hello, ${text ?: "Kotlin"}")
    // Hello, Kotlin
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

### Multi-dollar string interpolation

In regular string templates, a single dollar sign (`$`) starts interpolation. If you need

> to include literal dollar signs in a `String` value, use **multi-dollar string interpolation**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to include literal dollar signs in a string, use **multi-dollar string interpolation**.
```

Multi-dollar string interpolation allows you to specify how many consecutive dollar signs are required
to trigger interpolation. Dollar signs below that number are treated as literal characters.

> For example, when you use `$$` before a `String` literal,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, when you use `$$` before a string literal,
```

### Compare strings

You can check whether two strings have the same content with the `==` operator:

```kotlin
fun main(){
//sampleStart
    println("kotlin" == "kotlin")
    // true
  
    println("kotlin" == "Kotlin")
    // false
//sampleEnd    
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

You can also compare strings lexicographically (character by character) with the [`compareTo()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-string/compare-to.html)
function. It scans both strings until it finds the first differing pair of characters and returns:

* `0` when the strings are equal.
* A value less than `0` when the receiver is smaller than the argument.
* A value greater than `0` when the receiver is greater than the argument.

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart    
    println("abc".compareTo("abd") < 0)
    // true
    
    println("abc".compareTo("ABC") > 0)
    // true
    
    // Pass true to ignore case differences
    println("abc".compareTo("ABC", ignoreCase = true) == 0)
    // true
//sampleEnd  
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

### Work with string content

> If you want to change the content of a string, create a modified copy of it

Reviewer: Can you double-check that these aren't extension functions? Otherwise they should have  `.` in the name.

> with functions like [`replace()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/replace.html), [`trim()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/trim.html),

Reviewer: Nitpick. Can you put `trim()` first so that the order is reflected in the code sample?

        if (isEmpty()) append("OK")
    }
    
    println(status)
    // Errors found; Warnings found
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

Use [`StringBuilder`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/-string-builder/) when you need the buffer as an explicit value.
For example, to change the existing text:

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart
    val text = "Hello, Kotlin"
    val builder = StringBuilder(text)

    builder.replace(7, 13, "world")
    println(builder.toString()) 
    // Hello, world
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

On the JVM, you can also format a string with the [`String.format()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin.text/format.html) function:

```kotlin
val text = String.format("Hello, %s", "Kotlin") 
```  

> Use the `String.format()` function only when you specifically need formatter-style specifiers on the JVM.
> Learn more about format specifiers in the [Java Class Formatter documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/Formatter.html#summary).
>
{style="note"}

## String conversion

> Often you may use strings to represent values of other types, such as numbers, Boolean values, or identifiers from the input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often you may use strings to represent values of other types, such as numbers, `Boolean` values, or identifiers from the input.
```

* For integer values: [`toByte()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-byte.html), [`toShort()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-short.html), [`toInt()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-int.html), [`toLong()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-long.html)
* For floating-point values: [`toDouble()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-double.html), [`toFloat()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-float.html)
* For booleans: [`toBoolean()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-boolean.html), [`toBooleanStrict()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/to-boolean-strict.html)

These functions return a value of the requested type if the string has a valid format.
If the input may be invalid, use the `OrNull` variants. These functions return `null` 
instead of throwing an exception making them safe for user input or data that you don't
fully control:

```kotlin
val toInt = "10".toInt() // 10

// 1000000000000 exceeds maximum value of Int
val toIntInvalid = "1000000000000".toIntOrNull()

> val toBoolean = "true".toBooleanStrict() //true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
val toBoolean = "true".toBooleanStrict() // true
```

  the original text.
* [`subSequence()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/sub-sequence.html) to return a `CharSequence` with the selected
  part of the original text.

For example:

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart    
    val text = "Kotlin"
    println(text.substring(1))
    // otlin
    println(text.substring(1, 5))
    // otli
    println(text.subSequence(1, 5))
    // otli
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

Since the `String` type is immutable, these functions don't modify the original string.

### Compare strings

You can check whether two strings have the same content with the `==` operator:

```kotlin
fun main(){
//sampleStart
    println("kotlin" == "kotlin")
    // true
  
    println("kotlin" == "Kotlin")
    // false
//sampleEnd    
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

You can also compare strings lexicographically (character by character) with the [`compareTo()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-string/compare-to.html)
function. It scans both strings until it finds the first differing pair of characters and returns the

> difference between their Unicode code points. If strings are equal, the function returns `0`.

Reviewer 3: The specific values returned by `compareTo` is an implementation detail and users should not rely on them, only on their relation to zero (== 0, < 0, > 0).

> The `compareTo()` function also allows you to ignore case differences

Reviewer 3: The same is true for comparing strings for equality using `string.equals(other, ignoreCase = true)` function.

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart

    val hasErrors = true
    val hasWarnings = true
    val isComplete = false
    
    // buildString creates an empty buffer
    val status = buildString {
        // Appends "Errors found" to the buffer
        if (hasErrors) append("Errors found")
        if (hasWarnings) {
            // The buffer is not empty, appends "; "
            if (isNotEmpty()) append("; ")
            // Appends "Warnings found"
            append("Warnings found")
        }
        // isComplete = false, nothing to append
        if (isComplete) {
            if (isNotEmpty()) append("; ")
            append("Completed")
        }
        // The buffer is not empty, skips the fallback
        if (isEmpty()) append("OK")
    }
    
    println(status)
    // Errors found; Warnings found
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

Use [`StringBuilder`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/-string-builder/) when you need the buffer as an explicit value. For example, to pass
it into another function or build it in separate steps:

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart
    // Creates a new empty StringBuilder

>     val sb = StringBuilder()

Reviewer 3: The sample isn't much different from `buildString` and I would rather use the latter for this task. 
A StringBuilder can be used instead of `buildString`, for example, if one wants to start with an existing content and modify it in-place, e.g. 
```
val sb = StringBuilder(text)
// do something with the builder populated with text, maybe not only 'append'
```

  >
  {style="tip"}

## Common `String` Operations

Kotlin provides a range of operations for reading, extracting, combining, and transforming strings.

This section introduces some of the most commonly used operations.

> Learn more about all available functions in the
> [API Reference](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-string/).
>
{style="note"}

### Read input into a `String`

* To read a single line from the standard input, use `readln()` 
  or `readlnOrNull()` (if end-of-file is possible):
 
  ```kotlin
  val firstInput = readln()
  val secondInput = readlnOrNull() // End-of-file is possible
  ```

* To read multiline input as one `String`, join it with newline characters:

  ```kotlin
  val input = generateSequence(::readlnOrNull)
      .joinToString("\n")
  ```

### Get `String` length

To get the number of characters in a `String`, use the
[`length`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-string/length.html) property:

```kotlin 
fun main (){
    //sampleStart
    val language = "Kotlin"
    println(language.length) // 6
    //sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

### Concatenate strings

> To concatenate strings, use the `+` operator:

Author: Addressed

    val first = "Hello"
    val second = "Kotlin"
    val message = first + ", " + second
    println(message) // Hello, Kotlin
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

This creates a new `String` that contains the combined text of both operands.

You can also concatenate strings with values
of other types, as long as the first element in the expression is a `String`.

> Use concatenation for simple cases.
>
> When a string includes variables or expressions,
> [string templates](#string-templates) are usually easier to read.
>
> For longer or more structured text, prefer string templates or [multiline strings](#multiline-strings).
>
{style="note"}

### Inspect `String` 

To inspect a `String`, you can use `contains()`, `startsWith()`, and `endsWith()`:

```kotlin
fun main() { 
//sampleStart
    val domain = "kotlinlang.org"
    
    println(domain.contains("."))     // true
    println(domain.startsWith("kotlin")) // true
    println(domain.endsWith(".org"))  // true
//sampleEnd
}
 ```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

### Modify `String`

> Strings are immutable. Functions that change text return a new `String`.
> 

> {style="note"}

Author: fixed

    """
```

> > If you use single-dollar string interpolation, multi-dollar string interpolation does not affect your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you use single-dollar string interpolation, multi-dollar string interpolation doesn't affect your code.
```

> > 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can continue using a single `$` and apply multi-dollar signs 
> when needed.
>
{style="tip"}

## Basic string operations

Kotlin provides a range of operations for working with strings.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This section introduces some of the most commonly used operations.

> Learn more about all available functions in the
> [API Reference](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-string/).

Since the `String` type is immutable, you cannot change its contents. 
String operations return new strings with modifications applied and do not update

> the original variable. 

Reviewer: Since I suggest to add this text at the beginning, if you accept that then this duplicated part can be removed :)

### Get string length

> To get the number of characters in a `String`, use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the number of characters in a string, use the
```

[`length`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-string/length.html) property:

```kotlin 
fun main (){
    //sampleStart
    val language = "Kotlin"

>     println(language.length) // 6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    println(language.length) 
    // 6
```

    //sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

### Access characters by index

> To access an individual character in a `String`, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access an individual character in a string, 
```

use the indexing operator (`[]`): 

```kotlin 
fun main (){
    //sampleStart
    val language = "Kotlin"
    
    println(language[0]) // K

>     println(language[5]) // n

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    println(language[0]) 
    // K
    println(language[5]) 
    // n
```

    //sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

> > A `String` index starts at zero. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A string index starts at zero. 
```

> 

> {style="note"}

Reviewer: Can you make this a tip?

If you try to access an index outside the valid range, Kotlin throws an exception: 

```kotlin 
fun main (){
    //sampleStart
    val language = "Kotlin"

>     println(language[20]) // Exception

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    println(language[20]) 
    // Exception
```
We try to put results in code comments below the relevant code.

    //sampleEnd
}
```

> {kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3" validate="false"}
```
To stop the verify samples GH action from getting upset :)

### Extract parts of a string

> To extract part of a `String`, use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To extract part of a string, use
```

[`substring()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/substring.html) functions

> or [`subSequence()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/sub-sequence.html). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or the [`subSequence()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/sub-sequence.html) function. 
```

Substring functions return a new `String` that contains the selected part of the original text. 

> The original `String` is not modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `substring()` functions return a new string that contains the selected part of the original text without modifying the original string.
```

For example:
  
```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart    
    val text = "Kotlin"
    println(text.substring(1))    // otlin
    println(text.substring(1, 5)) // otli

>     println(text.subSequence(1, 5)) // otli

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    println(text.substring(1))    
    // otlin
    println(text.substring(1, 5)) 
    // otli
    println(text.subSequence(1, 5)) 
    // otli
```

//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

### Inspect string content

To inspect string content, you can use functions like `contains()`, `startsWith()`, or `endsWith()`:

```kotlin
fun main() { 
//sampleStart
    val domain = "kotlinlang.org"
    
    // Checks if the string contains "."
    println(domain.contains(".")) // true
    // Checks if the string starts with "kotlin"
    println(domain.startsWith("kotlin")) // true
    // Checks if the string ends with ".org"

>     println(domain.endsWith(".org"))  // true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Checks if the string contains "."
    println(domain.contains(".")) 
    // true
    
    // Checks if the string starts with "kotlin"
    println(domain.startsWith("kotlin")) 
    // true
    
    // Checks if the string ends with ".org"
    println(domain.endsWith(".org"))  
    // true
```

//sampleEnd
}
 ```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

> ### Split strings

Reviewer: Can you remove the bullet points in this section? Since there are only two topics I think it is fine without them :)

> * To divide a `String` into parts around a delimiter, use 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To divide a string into parts around a delimiter, use 
```

>   [`split()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/split.html):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the [`split()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/split.html) function:
```

  ```kotlin
  fun main() { 
  //sampleStart
      val numbers = "one, two, three"

>       println(numbers.split(", ")) // [one, two, three]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      println(numbers.split(", ")) 
      // [one, two, three]
```

  //sampleEnd
  }
  ```
  {kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

> * To split a `String` into individual lines, use 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To split a string into individual lines, use 
```

>   [`lines()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/lines.html):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the [`lines()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/lines.html) function:
```

    ```kotlin
    fun main() { 
    //sampleStart
        val numbers = "one\ntwo\nthree"

>         println(numbers.lines()) // [one, two, three]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        println(numbers.lines()) 
        // [one, two, three]
```

    println(language[5]) // n
    //sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

> A `String` index starts at zero. 
> 
{style="note"}

If you try to access an index outside the valid range, Kotlin throws an exception: 

```kotlin 
fun main (){
    //sampleStart
    val language = "Kotlin"
    println(language[20]) // Exception
    //sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

## Extract parts of a string

To extract part of a `String`, use substring functions. 

Substring functions return a new `String` that contains the selected part of the original text. 
The original `String` is not modified.

### Extract by index

Use [`substring()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/substring.html) when you know the position 
of the characters you want to extract:
  
```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart    
    val text = "Kotlin"
    println(text.substring(1))    // otlin
    println(text.substring(1, 5)) // otli
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

The start index is **inclusive**, and the end index is **exclusive**.

### Extract around a delimiter

> Use [`substringBefore()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/substring-before.html) 

Reviewer 2: There are many different functions to parse a string, is there a reason these two functions have a dedicated section in the doc?

Author: It seems to be the easiest ones to comprehend for the novice users (the target audience of this page) and to show the basic functionality. Are there other functions that, in your opinion, can replace these two?

and [`substringAfter()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/substring-after.html) to extract 
text relative to a delimiter:

```kotlin
fun main() { 
//sampleStart  
    val domain = "kotlinlang.org"
  
    println(domain.substringBefore(".")) // kotlinlang
    println(domain.substringAfter("."))  // org
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

>   > Use delimiter-based functions to separate structured text, such as file names, paths, or key-value pairs.

Reviewer 2: I don't think it's worth recommending string operations for file paths and names, it's a common cause of various bugs.

Author: removed

If you need to work with text patterns instead of fixed characters or delimiters, use
regular expressions
([`Regex`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/-regex/)).

Regular expressions can:
* Search string content
* Check whether text matches a pattern
* Split strings by a pattern
* Replace matching parts of a string

For example, you can use [`find()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/-regex/find.html) 
to return the first match of a regular expression:

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart
    val text = "User: Kotlin123"

    // Finds the first sequence of one or more digits and gets its value  
    val number = Regex("\\d+").find(text)?.value 
    println(number) // 123
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

### Build and format strings

> For most formatting tasks in Kotlin, use [string templates](#string-templates).
>
{style="note"}

* To build a `String` step by step, use 
  [`buildString()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/build-string.html):

  ```kotlin 
  val result = buildString {
      append("Hours: ")
      append("12")
      append(", minutes: ")

>       append("30")

Reviewer 2: This particular string does not require a builder or a template to construct. `buildString` is handy when building a string require some complex logic (like multiple conditions affecting the resulting string).

Author: Agree; however, that example is used to showcase the logic behind `buildString`, since particular use cases are too specific for such a page. The goal of this sample is to highlight that this function exists, rather than explain the concept in detail. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: I totally agree that examples should be concise and easy to grasp without any additional domain- or context-specific knowledge. However, it's not the most efficient or elegant way to construct the "Hours: 12, minutes: 30" string. And we should  probably discourage users from constructing string literals that way. At the same time, the string builder itself has a particular practical niche, and it would be nice to showcase it instead.

For example, you can use [`find()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/-regex/find.html) 
to return the first match of a regular expression:

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart
    val text = "User: Kotlin123"

    // Finds the first sequence of one or more digits and gets its value  
    val number = Regex("\\d+").find(text)?.value 
    println(number) // 123
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

### Build and format strings

> For most formatting tasks in Kotlin, use [string templates](#string-templates).
>
{style="note"}

* To build a `String` step by step, use 
  [`buildString()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/build-string.html):

  ```kotlin 
  val result = buildString {
      append("Hours: ")
      append("12")
      append(", minutes: ")
      append("30")
  }
  ```

  You can use it to assemble text incrementally, for example, in loops or conditional logic.

* On the JVM, you can also format a `String` using [`String.format()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin.text/format.html):

  ```kotlin
  val text = String.format("Hello, %s", "Kotlin")
  ```

>   > Use `String.format()` only when you specifically need formatter-style specifiers on the JVM.

Reviewer 2: Does it make sense to add a small hint on when one may need it? For example, when a template is used to format a localized message.

```kotlin
val toInt = "10".toInt()

> val toBoolean = "true".toBooleanStrictOrNull()

Reviewer 3: I meant here `toBooleanStrict` and later `toBooleanStrictOrNull` with some invalid string value for boolean producing null in the result.

// 1000000000000 exceeds maximum value of Int

> val toIntInvalid= "1000000000000".toIntOrNull()

Reviewer 3: Minor: code formatting
